In this lesson,
I'm going to formally introduce you to
Task Runners: Grunt and Gulp.
We will first look at
what task runners are,
what are the functionality
that they provide.
Thereafter we will review Grunt and
Gulp in more detail,
in the subsequent lectures.
As you have already realized or
will realize very soon,
web development involves
a lot of repetitive tasks.
Every time you change a Less or
a Sass file, you need to recompile it.
And then every time you, they compile and
create a CSS file you'll
have to modify it.
And you may have to concatenate
a bunch of files in order to create
the concatenated file.
Maybe you edit a JavaScript file,
then you have to do a check to make
sure that your code is correct.
Thereafter, you need to uglify
the JavaScript code, and so on.
So you have a lot of repetitive tasks that
you perform when you're
doing the development.
Now the principle behind
these task runners
is to make these repetitive
tasks easy to perform.
So that's why we talk
about the DRY principle,
the do not repeat yourself principle.
And this is where the need
to build automated tools for
running the different
tasks becomes essential.
Let's quickly review some of the
repetitive tasks that you need to perform.
Now talking about CSS, for example,
you might have to compile Sass or
Less into CSS whenever the Sass or
Less files are changed.
You may need to run
an autoprefixer in order to
add vendor-specific
markups to the CSS file.
You may need to do minification meaning
that you'll remove all the unnecessary
characters, like white spaces, new lines,
comments from the source code so
that you will get a smaller sized file,
without of course,
compromising the functionality.
We'll look at the results
of minification in
the exercise as we examine Grunt and Gulp.
Similarly you may want to concatenate
a whole bunch of CSS files and
create one single master CSS file which
you would include in your Web page.
All these tasks are as
I said repetitive and
this is where task runners
come to your rescue.
Similarly when it comes to JavaScript we
will have to check the JavaScript code for
errors and potential problems,
what we call as static code analysis.
This is where JSHint comes to our rescue.
This will go through all
your JavaScript files and
then check to make sure that you
are following the right conventions, and
the syntax is correct so that you avoid
potential problems in the future.
Similarly, you may have multiple
JavaScript files that you may
want to concatenate and
create one single large JavaScript file.
You may want to do uglification
which is minification,
meaning removing all the white spaces and
also mangling,
meaning that you are going
to replace all the local
variables that you declare inside your
functions with simple single letters.
Now once you deploy the code on a website,
it doesn't really matter what the code
looks like, as long as it works correctly.
So this is where we try to compact the
information that you have in the files,
by removing anything that is
extraneous from these files.
Now, after this processes,
you may wanna recheck for
errors to make sure that nothing
has been broken within your files.
Similarly you'll have other tasks like for
example if you have a lot of images
in your Web page, you may want to
optimize those files so
as to reduce the sizes of those files.
So optimization tasks need to be
run whenever you include a new file
into your assets that you
use within your Web page.
Similarly, you may want to have
a mechanism that will keep
a watch on all these files.
And whenever any one of them changes,
it will automatically run these tasks for
you.
You don't have to manually
intervene to run these tasks.
Instead if you set up the watch task then
it will keep a watch on all these files.
Anytime a Sass or Less file
changes it'll run the compilation,
the minification and concatenation and
generate the final files for you.
Similarly whenever any JavaScript code is
changed, it will automatically take care
of JSHint and
uglification tasks on the code.
Also, you may want to build
a server within your task runner,
so that it'll automatically
serve up the compiled code for
you so that you can check
the result in a browser.
So this is where a server with livereload.
Livereload allows you
to automatically reload
the Web page every time anything changes.
So anytime any of the files changed the
watch tasks will recompile everything for
you, and then the livereload will
ensure that your Web page is reloaded
in your browser where you're
checking the result of the changes.
And when you do development testing
as it should be an integral part
of your development so you should
carry out various kinds of tests.
Later on in this course, we will examine
how different tests are built for Angular.
So running automated tests
is equally as important.
Finally, you may want to build
your site for actual deployment on
a website or on a web server where
you're hosting your website.
So all these tasks should be
done automatically for you.
This is where task runners
come to your rescue.
What are task runners?
Task runners allow you to configure all
these different tasks that we just listed
in the previous slides such that they can
be automatically run whenever required.
Now if you look at the web
development landscape,
there are a number of task
runners in use out there.
The two major ones are Grunt and Gulp.
We have other ones, like Cake, Broccoli,
Brunch, now that's going to
make you hungry pretty soon.
But we are examining Grunt and
Gulp in more detail in this lesson.
Now obviously you're gonna ask,
should I use Grunt or should I use Gulp?
Now that depends upon how
you do your workflow.
Grunt is a configuration-based
task runner,
which means that you configure
all the tasks ahead of time.
And then Grunt takes care
of your [INAUDIBLE] tasks.
Gulp on the other hand is more code,
rather than configuration.
You create your tasks by writing code,
and then it'll allow you to run.
So less emphasis on configuration.
So depending on how you operate,
you might like one or
the other tools for your development.
Sometimes it can be worthwhile
to combine the two,
make use of both of them together,
of course, one after another.
Again, that depends upon how
you build your workflow.